# NEUB_RPS
This web application is developed considering the result processing system of North East University Bangladesh. I build this website only for practicing purpose and by my own interest during the lockdown of COVID-19 for passing the leisure time. However if anyone interested to use it please let me know via email at mirlutfur.rahman@gmail.com. Below I have added some features of this application.

<h2>Student Panel (General User)</h2>
<ul>
    <li>This panel will directly open by typing the url link.</li>
    <li>In header section a title  (click redirect to the same site) with a logo (click redirect to the official NEUB site) will appear.</li>
    <li>In display section there will be a welcome video (muted) with a caption (optional). In alternate there will be a image.</li>
    <li>In contact section university information with google map and a contact us form will appear.</li>
    <li>In footer section copyright and year will appear (onclick redirect to the official NEUB site).</li>
    <li>Student can search their result by using their Student ID (12 Digits) and Date of Birth (MM-DD-YYYY). Each search will be tracked by ip address and geo location (only admin can check it). A single search history will removed when it crosses the number 3000 in search list.</li>
    <li>Student can subscribe notification and two factor authentication (2FA) by clicking the text and will get email for result or any other change in his/her profile and OTPs for pass the 2FA during result check.</li>
    <li>Student will get all of his/her basic information that used in transcript.</li>
    <li>Student will get all of his/her result including drop course (according to the syllabus) and waived course.</li>
    <li>Incomplete result for any course will count as a fail in the transcript. Remarks will show in the result section but not in the transcript. Withdraw course information is not available in this portal.</li>
    <li>Student can print an online transcript which will be tracked by a reference no with ip address and geo location (only admin can check it). A single transcript print history will removed when it crosses the number 50000 in print list. <b>Note: </b>For a single query, only a single transcript is printable, for more print request query session will be destroyed.</li>
    <li>Student information add or edit right is available only for controller of examination.</li>
    <li>In case of unavailability of photo in student profile a demo profile image will show based on student gender.</li>
    <li>In contact us form general user can make a query which will directly send to the controller of examination email.</li>
    <li>If a student status changed to inactive then he/she can not access his/her result.</li>
    <li>If a course result status changed to inactive then it will not available in both result window and transcript.</li>
    <li>In every 5 seconds an automatice network connection check will be done.</li>
</ul>
    
<h2>Faculty Panel</h2>
<ul>
    <li>This panel will open by typing '/faculty' after the URL link.</li>
    <li>In header section a title  (click redirect to the same site) with a logo (click redirect to the official NEUB site) will appear.</li>
    <li>In the body section, there will be a login form with email, password and captcha fields. By filling these fields, faculty will get the access of faculty panel.</li>
    <li>By checking to Remember Me, faculty can save his/her password for 30 days (Except cache and cookie cleaning), on the other hand, for clearing credentials to check out the Remember Me. Credentials will remember after a successful login.</li>
    <li>By clicking Forget My Password, a form will appear with email and captcha. By filling this form, the faculty will receive a password reset link (one time useable) in his/her email. Faculty can reset his/her password by using the reset link.</li>
    <li>If faculty failed to reset his/her password, then it can be solved by the Controller of Examination admin (admin has the right to send the reset link in the faculty email but can not access the reset link). Password is highly secured (multiple custom encryption algorithm used), no one has the access to view the password, not even the admin.</li>
    <li>In footer section copyright and year will appear (click redirect to the official NEUB site).</li>
    <li>Faculty can log in if his/her ID and department are active. After a successful login, a two-factor authentication form will appear (if enable from faculty profile) here faculty has to insert an OTP that he/she received in his/her email. For successful OTP insertion with captcha, faculty will gain all the access. For three-time, wrong submission faculty id will be inactive (faculty will lose his/her access, only admin has the right to activate the account again).</li>
    <li>In faculty panel, the left side will contain basic information with four menu buttons: Dashboard, Search Result, Edit Profile, and Sign Out. And right side will show the page details for a menu button. At top of the right side, the menu title will appear. By default, the dashboard menu page will appear on the right side.</li>
    <li>In the dashboard, first there will be a view of the number of total students (including alumni and current students), total graduated students (completed any program successfully), top cgpa (maximum cgpa among all the graduate students considering all the programs), total dropouts students (For any student 2 or more semester drops considering current semester will count the student as a dropout in the list). Second, there will be a student statistics chart where faculty can see new students, graduate students and dropout students for semesters, faculty can select semesters from drop-down options on the top right of the chart. Dropdown options by default, select the last 5 semesters considering the last available semester data from the database. Third, there will be a CGPA statistics, line graph that will show semester top CGPA and semester graduates top CGPA in semesters, again faculty can select semesters from the drop-down option on the top right of the line graph. Last, there will be a table of recent results where faculty can see results in descending order from the database. Basically, 5 last results will show in the table but clicking show more faculty can see more 5 results and so on. <b>Note: </b>Only active and faculty's own department data will show in the faculty panel. All type of inactive and other departments data will be hidden from the faculty panel.</li>
    <li>In the top right of the page, a program choose option is available where faculty can select any program or all program in his department to change the data. </li>
    <li>In search results, faculty can check student wise results or course wise results with search and sort option. For student wise results, faculty can check student basic info with semester wise results, fail courses, pass courses, drop courses (based on the syllabus), and waived courses. Each student wise result check will be tracked by IP address and geo-location (only admin can check it). Also, faculty can print an online transcript which will be tracked by a reference no with IP address and geo-location (only admin can check it). A single transcript print history will be removed when it crosses the number 50000 in the print list. On the other hand, in course wise result faculty can filter the data based on semesters and grades. By clicking view, faculty will get student basic info with course info, result info, and course instructor info. </li>
    <li>In edit profile faculty can edit his cell no, two-factor status, profile picture, and password.</li>
    <li>By clicking sign out session will be destroyed and faculty will sign out from the access. Each page in the faculty panel has a refresh button to reload the updated content in the page.</li>
    <li>In every 8 seconds, an automatic network connection and session check will be done. Admin has the right to destroy any faculty member session.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Moderator Panel</h2>
<ul>
    <li>This panel will open by typing '/moderator_admin' after the URL link.</li>
	<li>In header section a title (click redirect to the same site) with a logo (click redirect to the official NEUB site) will appear.</li>
	<li>In the body section, there will be a login form with email, password and captcha fields. By filling these fields, moderator will get the access of moderator panel.</li>
    <li>By checking to Remember Me, moderator can save his/her password for 30 days (Except cache and cookie cleaning), on the other hand, for clearing credentials to check out the Remember Me. Credentials will remember after a successful login.</li>
    <li>By clicking Forget My Password, a form will appear with email and captcha. By filling this form, the moderator will receive a password reset link (one time useable) in his/her email. Moderator can reset his/her password by using the reset link.</li>
    <li>If moderator failed to reset his/her password, then it can be solved by the Controller of Examination admin (admin has the right to send the reset link in the moderator email but can not access the reset link). Password is highly secured (multiple custom encryption algorithm used), no one has the access to view the password, not even the admin.</li>
    <li>In footer section copyright and year will appear (click redirect to the official NEUB site).</li>
    <li>Moderator can log in if his/her ID is active. After a successful login, a two-factor authentication form will appear (mandatory) here moderator has to insert an OTP that he/she received in his/her email. For successful OTP insertion with captcha, moderator will gain all the access. For five-time, wrong submission moderator id will be inactive (moderator will lose his/her access, only admin has the right to activate the account again).</li>
    <li>In moderator panel, the left side will contain basic information with five menu buttons: Dashboard, Students, Results, Edit Profile, and Sign Out. And right side will show the page details for a menu button. At top of the right side, the menu title will appear. By default, the dashboard menu page will appear on the right side.</li>
    <li>In the dashboard, first there will be a view of the number of total students (including alumni and current students), total graduated students (completed any program successfully), top cgpa (maximum cgpa among all the graduate students considering all the programs), total dropouts students (For any student 2 or more semester drops considering current semester will count the student as a dropout in the list). Second, there will be a student statistics chart where moderator can see new students, graduate students and dropout students for semesters, moderator can select semesters from drop-down options on the top right of the chart. Dropdown options by default, select the last 5 semesters considering the last available semester data from the database. Third, there will be a CGPA statistics, line graph that will show semester top CGPA and semester graduates top CGPA in semesters, again moderator can select semesters from the drop-down option on the top right of the line graph. Last, there will be a table of recent results where moderator can see results in descending order from the database. Basically, 5 last results will show in the table but clicking show more moderator can see more 5 results and so on. <b>Note: </b>Only active data will show in the moderator panel dashboard. All type of inactive data will be hidden from the moderator panel dashboard.</li>
    <li>In the top right of the page, a program and department choose option is available where moderator can select any department or program to change the data. </li>
    <li>In students page, moderator can add students (single or multiple) and add waived courses (single or multiple) for student. Moderator can view a student details (all results semester wise, pass courses list, fail courses list, drop courses list, waived courses list) but do not have rights to edit or remove. Moderator can print online transcript for any student. But each print and view will be tracked on records (Admin can check it). Moderator can search a student by student ID or student name. Moderator can see both active and inactive students. Moderator can sort and filter the view list from the right side option.</li>
	<li>In results page, moderator can add results (single or multiple). Moderator can view result details (marks, remarks, course instructor etc.). Moderator can sort and filter the view list from the right side option. Moderator can see both active and inactive results.</li>
	<li>In edit profile moderator can edit his cell no, profile picture, and password. Moderator can not disable the two factor authentication system this feature will always enable for moderator.</li>
    <li>By clicking sign out session will be destroyed and moderator will sign out from the access. Each page in the moderator panel has a refresh button to reload the updated content in the page.</li>
    <li>In every 8 seconds, an automatic network connection and session check will be done. Admin has the right to destroy any moderator member session.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Admin Panel</h2>
<ul>
    <li>This panel will open by typing '/super_admin' after the URL link.</li>
	<li>In header section a title (click redirect to the same site) with a logo (click redirect to the official NEUB site) will appear.</li>
	<li>In the body section, there will be a login form with email, password and captcha fields. By filling these fields, admin will get the access of admin panel.</li>
    <li>By checking to Remember Me, admin can save his/her password for 30 days (Except cache and cookie cleaning), on the other hand, for clearing credentials to check out the Remember Me. Credentials will remember after a successful login.</li>
    <li>By clicking Forget My Password, a form will appear with email and captcha. By filling this form, the admin will receive a password reset link (one time useable) in his/her email. Admin can reset his/her password by using the reset link.</li>
    <li>If admin failed to reset his/her password, then it can be solved by the super admin (super admin has the right to send the reset link in the admin email but can not access the reset link). Password is highly secured (multiple custom encryption algorithm used), no one has the access to view the password, not even the admin.</li>
    <li>In footer section copyright and year will appear (click redirect to the official NEUB site).</li>
    <li>Admin can log in if his/her ID is active. After a successful login, a two-factor authentication form will appear (mandatory) here admin has to insert an OTP that he/she received in his/her email. For successful OTP insertion with captcha, admin will gain all the access. For five-time, wrong submission admin id will be inactive (admin will lose his/her access, only admin has the right to activate the account again).</li>
    <li>In admin panel, the left side will contain basic information with thirteen menu buttons: Dashboard, Departments, Programs, Course List, Course Offer List, Admin Members, Faculty Members, Students, Results, Result Search Records, Transcript Print Records, User Login Records, Edit Profile, and Sign Out. And right side will show the page details for a menu button. At top of the right side, the menu title will appear. By default, the dashboard menu page will appear on the right side.</li>
    <li>In the dashboard, first there will be a view of the number of total students (including alumni and current students), total graduated students (completed any program successfully), top cgpa (maximum cgpa among all the graduate students considering all the programs), total dropouts students (For any student 2 or more semester drops considering current semester will count the student as a dropout in the list). Second, there will be a student statistics chart where admin can see new students, graduate students and dropout students for semesters, admin can select semesters from drop-down options on the top right of the chart. Dropdown options by default, select the last 5 semesters considering the last available semester data from the database. Third, there will be a CGPA statistics, line graph that will show semester top CGPA and semester graduates top CGPA in semesters, again admin can select semesters from the drop-down option on the top right of the line graph. Last, there will be a table of recent results where admin can see results in descending order from the database. Basically, 5 last results will show in the table but clicking show more admin can see more 5 results and so on. <b>Note: </b>Only active data will show in the admin panel dashboard. All type of inactive data will be hidden from the admin panel dashboard.</li>
    <li>In the top right of the page, a program and department choose option is available where admin can select any department or program to change the data. </li>
    <li>In departments page, admin can add department (single or multiple), edit any specific department, remove a specific department(if it doesn't has any enrolled students or programs or results.). Admin can see both active and inactive departments also can sort and filter the view list. Admin can check department remove history and moderation history. Any type of change will be tracked in records.</li>
	<li>In program page, admin can add program (single or multiple under a department), edit any specific program (changing credits will also record the previous one but in inactive mode so that no students can enrolled with previous credits), remove a specific program (if it doesn't has any enrolled students or results).  Admin can see both active and inactive programs also can sort and filter the view list. Admin can check program remove history and moderation history. Any type of change will be tracked in records.</li>
	<li>In course list page, admin can add course (single or multiple under a program), edit any specific course, remove a specific course (if it doesn't has any enrolled students or results).  Admin can see both active and inactive courses also can sort and filter the view list. Admin can check course remove history and moderation history. Any type of change will be tracked in records.</li>
	<li>In course offer list page, admin can add course offer (single or multiple under a program in a specific number of credits), edit any specific course offer, remove a specific course offer.  Admin can see both active and inactive course offers also can sort and filter the view list. Admin can check course offer remove history and moderation history. Any type of change will be tracked in records.</li>
	<li>In faculty members page, admin can add new faculty member (single or multiple under a department), edit any specific faculty member info, remove a specific faculty member (if faculty member id doesn't belongs with any result).  Admin can see both active and inactive faculty members also can sort and filter the view list. Admin can check faculty member remove history and moderation history. Any type of change will be tracked in records.</li>
	<li>In students page, admin can add students (single or multiple) and add waived courses (single or multiple) for student. Admin can view a student details (all results semester wise, pass courses list, fail courses list, drop courses list, waived courses list). Admin can print online transcript and download a excel file for preparing official transcript for any student. But each print and view will be tracked on records. Admin can search a student by student ID or student name. Admin can see both active and inactive students. Admin can sort and filter the view list from the right side option. Admin can check student remove history and moderation records.</li>
	<li>In results page, admin can add results (single or multiple). Admin can remove multiple or single result also edit single or multiple results. Admin can view result details (marks, remarks, course instructor etc.). Admin can sort and filter the view list from the right side option. Admin can see both active and inactive results. Admin can check result remove history and moderation records.</li>
	<li>In result search records page, admin can check all type of result search records with date, time, geo location, ip address. Admin also can search for any records with sort and filter option. This record list will store last 3000 records.</li>
	<li>In transcript print records page, admin can check all type of transcript print records with date, time, geo location, ip address. Admin also can search for any transcript print records with sort and filter option. This record list will store last 50000 records.</li>
	<li>In user login records page, admin can check all type of user (faculty, moderator, admin) login records with date, time, geo location, ip address. Admin also can search for any login records with sort and filter option. Admin can destroy any session of a user. This record list will store last 3000 records for moderator, faculty, admin.</li>
	<li>Admin can print any records from any page by using print option.</li>
	<li>By clicking sign out session will be destroyed and admin will sign out from the access. Each page in the admin panel has a refresh button to reload the updated content in the page.</li>
    <li>In every 8 seconds, an automatic network connection and session check will be done. Admin and super admin has the right to destroy any other admin member session.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Super Admin Panel</h2>
<ul>
	<li>Super admin has all the features of general Admin. In addition this panel has two extra page access one is Admin Members and another is System Components.</li>
	<li>In admin page super admin can add general admin and moderator, edit general admin and moderator basic details, or remove general admin. Super admin can see other super admin details but do not has the right of moderation. Super admin can sort and filter the view list. Also can search admin by name. Super admin can check other admin activity and remove history.</li>
	<li>In system components page, super admin can edit basic text and images of the entire system. But any change will be recorded in history.</li>
	<li>For creating super admin one has to access the cpanel and insert manually in nr_admin table with admin type 'Super Admin' at database. There are no way of making super admin from the system directly.</li>
	<li>In super admin edit profile page super admin can change all the information except the enable-disable feature of the two factor authentication service (2FA mandatory). </li>
	<li>Super admin can export a backup copy of database using '/get_backup_db.php?db_backup=yes' link after signed in. <b>Note:</b> Both developer and super admin will get a notification email. </li>
</ul>

<h2>Installation Guideline</h2>
<ul>
	<li>Required a rich server with required bandwidth, mysql and php v:7+.</li>
	<li>Configure the db_connection.php page with sql server info (host,user,password,db_name) (includes/db_connection.php).</li>
	<li>Database backup is available in db_backup folder. After installation remove it from the directory for safety.</li>
	<li>Also remove the README and git folder.</li>
	<li>For more info you can contact at: mirlutfur.rahman@gmail.com, mlrahman@neub.edu.bd.</li>
</ul>
